In this example we are going to
talk about protected routes.
And so this is a really valuable
technique when you want to
control access to a portion
of your application.
So for instance, imagine you had
an admin section that you wanted to
prevent somebody from going to, unless
they had been properly authenticated.
And so this is where we
implement protected routes.
And so we think of this as
a guarded route, a protected route.
And we have the ability to
insert just a little bit of
logic in the form of a route guard,
to say yes or no.
And so within our code,
I am going to add in another path and
we're going to just call this one garden,
or
rather let's call it protected.
So this is a protected route, and
we're going to give it a component
of ProtectedComponent.
And now what we're going to
do is we are going to add in
an additional property
which is canActivate.
And so this is pretty simple,
it's can it activate true or false?
And so, from here,
we are going to add in, An AuthGuard,
and so I'll show you what
this looks like in a moment.
But the point of this is,
this AuthGuard is going to do really
one of two things,
it's going to return true or false.
There's also a second and
a half option that I'm going to
illustrate inside of this
particular demonstration,
let me fix that typo there,
and we are ready to go.
So, I'm going to take off the AuthGuard
first, I'm going to save it,
we'll go into our code, and I just
want to show you what this looks like.
So, protected route example, if you
can see this, click on the user icon.
When we finish this, we'll see what this
looks like, but here's the component.
Now from here, I'm going add in or
add back in this guard.
And if we look in the guard,
that this is nothing more
than a class, surprise,
welcome to Angular.
And this implements
a canActivate interface,
which has one method that we have
to implement, which is canActivate.
Now, canActivate takes in two parameters,
next and state.
So, next is where is this going, and
what is the state of the snapshot?
And from here, there is a number
of things that this can return,
I'm not gonna get into that,
what we care about here is boolean.
And so, I'm going to,
let's start with true,
and what you're gonna see,
hopefully, is that nothing changes.
So I'm able to navigate freely
to this protected route,
no problem, but if I go and
I set this to false,
then I'll go from any other
route to Protected Routes.
And notice, I'm clicking on this but
nothing is happening,
it's just simply saying,
you cannot go to this route.
And if I stopped here, this could
potentially be a subpar user experience.
Because when you click on something, you
expect that something is going to happen.
And so this is where when I
mentioned that there's a yet
an additional option that we have.
And that is, when you click on
a route you should not go to,
you have the ability to capture it and
say this person's
not authenticated,
let's direct them to a place to do so.
So within our AuthGuard here,
we're going to update this.
And so you notice here I'm injecting
the AuthService as well as the router.
And so what I'm going to do is when
somebody hits this protected route and
then they're directed to this AuthGuard,
I am going to stop and
I'm going to check,
is this person authenticated?
And if they are, carry on, if not,
what we're going to do is
something else entirely.
So, the return for this is we're
going to call this authService and
isAuthenticated, and
this is going to return true or false.
But if they're not authenticated,
we can take this
a step further, and
this is where good UX prevails.
So within this, we're going to pipe
off of this and we're going to tap.
And so tap is the ability to tap
into an observable stream and
do something that would
cause a side effect.
And from here,
we're going to capture the value being
returned from this observable stream.
So we're calling this
authService isAuthenticated, and
what we wanna know is are they
authenticated, isAuthenticated?
And then from here, we're going to say,
if they're not authenticated,
then we're going to take severe and
dire actions.
There will be consequences, and
so if they're not authenticated,
we're simply going to route
them to the login page.
So in this case, navigate by URL, and
we're just going to send them to login,
all right?
And, If they are authenticated,
we're just going to return this
as to not break the string.
And so now if they're authenticated,
great, you can go on look your way,
if not, we're going to send
them to the login page.
So if we go back into our application and
I click on Protected Routes,
if you can see this,
then you're currently authenticated.
But if I log out,
then now you are directed
towards the login page,
but then if I go and
try to navigate to this directly,
You notice here that it thought
about it for a second and
then it sent me right
back to the login page.
And so what's happening is when
I click that Logout button,
I'm basically setting a property on
the authService to I'm not authenticated.
And which then prevents me from
navigating directly to it because it
hits that AuthGuard and
redirects me back to the login page.
But then once I click Login,
then I can go back to
Protected Routes and
I'm able to do that freely and
without any kind of problem whatsoever.
So, just to review real
quickly on this example,
the big thing here is within
the app-routing module.
You simply add in a canActivate
property which takes in a guard,
and a guard is going to implement
the canActivate interface.
And so, from here it has a single function
that's going to return true or false.
Or for the sake of good UX and
UI, that we can also
perform some logic here to say,
if this is false,
maybe we want to do something for
the user on their behalf.
And so this is how you can protect
a route in an Angular application.